[patch] Reorganize section on Connections (#136)
chipsalliance/firrtl-spec: spec.md

Two property types are equivalent if they are the same concrete property type.

# Connections

The components of a module can be connected together using connect statements.

> These connections are both physical, as if the components were connected together with a wire,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These connections can be both physical, as if the components were connected together with a wire,
```

if you just have properties there is nothing physical

If the expression is a sub-field expression, the flow depends on whether the field is flipped.
If the field is not flipped, the flow is the same as the expression itself.
If the field is flipped, the flow is the reversed flow:

* The reverse of a source is a sink.
* The reverse of a sink is a source.
* The reverse of a duplex is a duplex.

All remaining expressions are sources:

* constant literals
* primitive operations
* multiplexers
* enum expressions
* all probe expressions (`probe` `rwprobe` and `read`)

## Connection Rules

Knowing both the type and flow of both sides of a `connect` statement,
you can determine whether the connection is legal.

The types of the left-hand and right-hand side expressions must be
equivalent (see [@sec:type-equivalence] for details).

The flow of the right-hand side expression must be source or duplex,
or else the right-hand side expression has a passive type.

TODO: Why is a passive type acceptable?
TODO: Is this because passive types "can be flipped for free" intuitively?

The flow of the left-hand side expression must be sink or duplex.

Neither side of the connect may have a property type.

> TODO: I think this is fraught. What if a property ends up in a bundle type?

Author: @mikeurbach I'm looking for some help with this. I think the intention is that property types can never enter bundles. That seems to be suggestive in the grammar.

  connect myoutput, myinput
```

> In the syntax for a `connect` statement, the first argument is referred to as the "right-hand side".

Reviewer: well, that's all very confusing. Note that `connect rhs, lhs` used to be written as `lhs <- rhs` where that made the most sense. Maybe a footnote for this fact to help readers understand why that is the case (or we rewrite all this??)

Author: I might just change it to a more meaningful name. The "target" and the ... something? I'll see if anyone has any ideas.

Reviewer: i realized after i wrote this that you had written some text below this that can help. I still think a LHS and RHS is ok with the rationale

The second argument is referred to as the "left-hand side".

Generally, we think of this as being like assignment in a programming language,
with data flowing from the left-hand side to the right-hand side,
with the caveat that data can flow in both directions, thanks to the presence of bundles with flips.

## Flow

The direction that signals travel across a connection is determined by multiple factors:
the kind of circuit component (e.g., `input` vs `output`),
the side of a connect statement it appears on,
and the presence of `flip`s if the signal is a bundle type.

To ensure connections are meaningful when taking directionality into account,
every expression in FIRRTL has a flow.

The flow of an expression can be one of *source*, *sink*, or *duplex*.

A source expression supplies a signal, and can be used to drive a circuit component.
A sink expression can be driven by another expression.
A duplex expression is simply an expression that is both a source and sink.

The rules for the flow of an expression are as follows:

> If the expression is a reference, we look at the kind of the circuit component:

Reviewer: What do you mean "the kind of circuit component"? You mean "the kind of circuit component that the reference is pointing to"?

> * Nodes are sources.
> * Wires and registers are duplex.
> * For ports, `input` ports are sources and `output` ports are sinks.
> * Submodule instances are sources.
> * Memories are sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* References to Nodes are sources.
* References to Wires and registers are duplex.
* For ports, `input` ports are sources and `output` ports are sinks.
* Submodule instances are sources.
* Memories are sources.
```

and so on? I really don't understand the references sentence above

Here are a few comments to help with intuition:
Nodes may only appear "on the left side" of a connect.
Wires and registers may appear "on either side of a connect statement".
Ports are always considered from the perspective of "inside the module".
Moreover, input ports may only appear "on the left side" of a connect,

> while output ports may only appear "on the right side" of a connect.

Reviewer: this is confusing because its not obvious how to refer to something on the OUTSIDE of the module. the same "port" is different when viewed from inside or outside the module you are talking about.

We may be well served to use industry standard terminology here. I think "ports" and "pins" are the names for the things viewed "from the inside" vs "from the outside" respectively.
